This Service Just Announced As Follows!!!

Our CEO, Greg Newby, is trying this out, it's working fine!

[The following is the press release pretty much as it arrived]


Look For PG Mobile - Project Gutenberg's Mobile Edition


Why using Amazon's proprietary Kindle when you can use your mobile phone 
instead? Today's cell phones offer excellent screens and massive computing 
power to ensure best reading comfort. Mobile books do not weigh much and you 
can carry them with you wherever you are. 
Each Java / MIDP 2.0 enabled cell phone is sufficient - the most common 
computing platform in the world: There are by far more cell phones shipped 
worldwide than personal computers.

PG Mobile is a software that transfers the plain text format provided by 
Project Gutenberg onto small handset screens - together with all the features 
known from physical books like turning pages, page numbers and bookmarks. Just 
download the PG Mobile version of any eBook and read it on your phone: All 
Project Gutenberg mobile eBooks will soon be available for download as an 
additional file format in the download section of each Gutenberg title on 
Gutenberg.org. Stay tuned!

PG Mobile is based on the common Java file format (JAR) readable on nearly all 
mobile handsets. The superior features of the PG Mobile reader offer benefits 
like landscape mode and bookmarks, among many others. There's no book size 
limit, the book size is only limtated by the individual capabilities of your 
handset.

All mobile books can be downloaded as Java-applications and can then later be 
installed on the cell phone by using Bluetooth, serial connection, infrared or 
data cable. Additionally it will be possible to install the books directly 
over the air by using WAP: Just browse to Gutenberg.org and click on the JAR-
link. And soon the mobile book will automatically be installed on your phone.

Please visit the homepage of the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation: http://www.gutenberg.org.

PG Mobile developed by QiOO Interactive, PG Mobile - JAR-book Technology by 
QiOO Interactive, http://www.qioo.com.

QiOO Interactive is the first producer of free mobile books worldwide. As a 
result of a university spin-off project at the Institute of Electronic 
Business e.V., http://www.ieb.net, the first mobile books were created in 
summer 2003.
_______________________________________________
gmonthly mailing list
gmonthly@lists.pglaf.org
http://lists.pglaf.org/listinfo.cgi/gmonthly
